###################################################
##
## README
## http://github.com/cnugteren/rooflineDVFS
## 16-Oct-2013
## Cedric Nugteren <www.cedricnugteren.nl>
##
## This repository is an online appendix to the
## scientific article "Roofline-aware DVFS for GPUs"
##
###################################################

###################################################
## Benchmarks
###################################################

Three types of CUDA benchmarks are tested:
- Benchmarks from PolyBench/GPU
- Benchmarks from Parboil (requires Parboil datasets
  to be installed in ~/software/parboil-2.5/datasets/)
- Two artificial micro-benchmarks

###################################################
## Experimental setup
###################################################

GPGPU-Sim version 3.2.1 + GPUWattch
(commit 72aaaf6b11b38121d946469f26d85315ff794f29)

>> For GPGPU-Sim [-gpgpu_clock_domains XXX:YYY:XXX:ZZZ]
XXX is the halved core frequency (600-500-400-300)
YYY is the full core frequency (1200-1000-800-600)
ZZZ is the memory frequency (900-750-600-450)

>> For GPGPU-Sim [-dram_latency XXX]
XXX is the DRAM latency is core clock cycles, reduced
when scaling the core frequency to keep the latency
(in seconds) constant (100-83-76-50)

>> For GPUWattch [
                  <param name="mc_clock" value="XXX"/>
                  <param name="peak_transfer_rate" value="YYY"/>
                  ]
XXX is the doubled memory clock or the halved effective
clock (1800-1500-1200-900). YYY is the bandwidth per
memory controller (28800-24000-19200-14400)

>> For GPUWattch [
                  <param name="target_core_clockrate" value="XXX"/>
                  <param name="clockrate" value="XXX"/>
                  <param name="NOC_A" value="XXX" />
                  ]
XXX is either the halved or full core clock frequency
in various places in the configuration settings.

>> For GPUWattch [
                  <param name="MEM_RD" value="XXX" />
                  <param name="MEM_WR" value="YYY" />
                  <param name="MEM_PRE" value="ZZZ" />
                  ]
XXX, YYY, and ZZZ are scaled with the core clock rate
to obtain correct memory power characteristics. This
has been acknowledge to be a bug in the simulator and
will be repaired in the next version.

###################################################
## Contents of the repository
###################################################

>> [benchmark_code]
Folder containing CUDA source code made suitable for
the GPGPU-Sim simulator.

>> [configurations]
All the GPGPU-Sim and GPUWattch configuration files.

>> [results]
Folder containing the graphs as they appear in the
article plus more detailed graphs. It also contains
a processed database extracted from simulation data.

>> [simulation_data]
The raw simulation output from GPGPU-Sim and GPUWattch.

>> [process.r]
An R-script to process the raw simulation data and
output a database in CSV format (in results folder)

>> [graph.r]
An R-script to generate plots based on the database
generated by the process.r script.

>> [README]
This file.

###################################################